they reckon you should let sleeping dogs
lie but pay no attention to such clichés
because in the case of Square Enix and
united front games open war thriller
Sleeping Dogs there's very little time
to take a quick nap years in the making
and featuring non-stop action inspired
by the cream of Asian cinema Sleeping
Dogs puts you in the role of wei sheng
an undercover cop who has the unenviable
task of taking down the Hong Kong triads
from the inside
i'm here at square enix is london HQ
where some lucky members of their
community have been invited to get some
hands-on time of the game before anyone
else not only that but they'll have the
fortune of being pestered by me for
their opinions before interrupting their
valuable game time however I caught up
with Al Cornish from square to see how
the game shaping up Hong Kong is really
fresh it's exciting its vibrant the
street life is completely packed and you
go through for example the night market
one of the areas in the game is one of
the busiest and most vibrant this
hawkers shouting at you're trying to
sell you everything the knockoff goods
clothes DVDs whatever there's people
selling food there's gas rising from
vents there's colorful girls trying to
sell you drinks and other things it's
just really really vibrant any time of
day or night the team's experience with
driving games is pretty much second to
none and they're fantastic so the
handling for we've got 665 vehicles in
the game all with different handy models
so there's a bikes cars trucks boats and
they all had a very differently second
getting a high in sports bikes and as we
go it's late in the game and kind of
increases in space and creases standing
you can end up driving some pretty
swanky sports cars and then you can kind
of think back to the to the earlier
models you were driving you know this
will start the game and there's a real
difference in how they hand or how they
feel how could they offer illegal street
races I could be all five taking people
out running off the road and if you've
got a gun you can shoot one in a car if
you're driving a car you can ram other
cars and try and merge the shooting a
million are driving so limit of a street
race you can just sideswipe another car
you know send them flying off the road
you can get quite quite violent in the
middle of a street race there's a lot of
the improvisation that you see in some
old kind of you know Jackie Chan
classics well use anything in the
environment in turn your jars as well
you mentioned
previously I'm not just in terms of hey
can kind of get away from opponents are
outmaneuver them but also just how it
can hurt people were so weary capable in
and of himself he can break the limbs
keep people on the ground tackle and
kind of took almost MMA style spear
tackles and break their jaws but he can
also use the environment you can throw
people's heads into fans used table saws
burn people's faces on stoves these
almost anything and as well as objects
that you've kind of specifically tagged
up with special kind of kill animations
around them you can also sprint and just
throw enemies at any time on the rag
doll and you can smash into the corners
of walls throw them into oncoming
traffic pitch them over the edges of
railings to falter death is there's so
many different ways of expressing
yourself in in combat some things we try
to do is keep everything flowing
together so you never have to kind of go
into a shooting mode or a melly mode you
know but voice or swapping out special
equipment or you know pressing assault
mode toggle button or anything like that
so a really good example is how you go
from hey can go from a liter to shooting
is if you've got a guy staying behind
cover blasting you you can just charge
at him empty-handed vault cover kick him
in the face and disarm him and one
smooth move now you've got his gun with
at gun obviously you can you can you can
take cover you can blind fight and cover
I mean five from cover can volt / cover
and going to kind of slow mode mode and
get some really nice flick headshots but
you can also some comes up behind you
can turn around pistol whip them kick
them there are combos even while you've
got weapons in your hands so there's no
there's no break in the flow it all
flows together again if you've run out
of ammunition for that gun toss it all
over the next piece of Calvino smash the
guy in the face with the empty right we
don't pick something else it's like days
like this are great too to experience in
real people playing the game and see how
they got on there what they love you
know to see well what morally tickles
them is are the stories at the combat is
it the you know which aspects of it the
freerunning we've had kind of focus
tests hands-on throughout development
just to try and hone the mechanics to
get them as tight as they can be as fun
as they can be so this kind of caps it
all off you know to see
at this stage and I putting the kind of
consumer demo in people's hands and
seeing how the response oh yeah it's a
great kind of ends to the to the
project's almost end I think the thing
that might make it stick out the most of
me is the story like a thing there's
it's very rare that like there's been a
lot of attempts to kind of do this or
the true crime story but I think they
might have like kind of the winning
formula irie like the combat system it's
not like a traditional shooter as you'd
expect from over more game they kind of
tend to tend to be together it's a free
flow system similar to the Batman series
and so yeah lots of contextual moves
against environments it offers a lot of
different kinds of combat and driving
things and it's got a really great world
they've built up it's really colorful
which is cool and it's just yeah it's
got its got a really edge to it which is
really impressive and that's what you
want from the game I think most of a
combat seems to stuck out the most it's
quite free flowing like arkham city but
it's got these quite visible finishing
moves which kind of provide a nice
closure to hear fighting I'd like to
have been a chance to play with the
driving and maybe the shooting mechanic
get a better idea right role but so far
looking good I try to go to as many of
these sorts of events as possible which
is what most paying attention to light
all the publishers Facebook feeds ya
know it kind of is a great opportunity
to like get the game I'd like to get
your hands on the game a bit early and
sort of talk to the developers and kind
of get a feeling that like you're seeing
some of the magic happen at the time my
fitness are still a bit of in a step via
the state of flux and yeah it's just
really nice to go to an event when you
know you can talk to someone come a
really interesting conversation about
the game you just played well I should
find out about it through Twitter
square enix from up saying we've got an
event would you like to come fill out
this form and we'll see if we let you in
but I was lucky enough to be get the
message saying yes there's plenty more
coming for the community you can't go
into too many specifics now but the best
way to keep in touch and see what's
coming down the pipe is to like us on
Facebook Follow us on Twitter or go to
Sleeping Dogs dotnet for more
information and then you won't miss out
on anything was coming
you